Once you get to Hokkaido,
ask if you can visit Otaru,
and go see Huci.
The lieutenant should
grant you that.
I can't imagine he'd be
cruel enough to stop you.
It'll be okay. I promise.
After we've secured the girl,
where should we move her, sir?
There's a warehouse
on the grounds of
the 25th Tsukisappu
Regiment's base that's been
left abandoned
since the war ended.
Underneath it, you'll find
a basement that even
the Regiment Commander
has no idea exists.
We can hide her there
until we've dug up our prize
and this race for the
stolen Ainu gold is over.
Even if it takes years
to accomplish.
Those of you from the advance
team, I applaud your hard work.
I never doubted for a moment
that you would succeed.
You must be Asirpa.
It's nice to finally meet you.
How very interesting.
All right. Let's get Asirpa
aboard the destroyer!
Sugimoto and Shiraishi,
you can take the morning ferry
to Wakkanai and
wait for us there.
[gasping]
Wait a second.
Why aren't we going together?
The boat can only carry
so many people,
so not everyone can come aboard.
You told them to wait
for us in Wakkanai.
What are you planning?
I want to know where
you're taking me.
[TSURUMI]
All in good time.
From the look of things,
it seems like you're
trying to separate us.
Nonsense, I'm simply trying
to get you someplace
where you'll be safe.
Then you can see your
friends whenever you'd like.
Did you know?
Hijikata was the only one
who knew of my existence.
My father wished for me
to be a part of this,
to ensure that the gold was
used for the sake of the Ainu.
I want to hear the answer
straight from you.
This future you
envision for yourself--
Does it include the Ainu people?
Why wouldn't it, dear?
My aim is to create
a future where everyone
can live in harmony.
Of course, accomplishing that
is far easier said than done.
Which is why you are
so important in reaching
this dream of mine.
[guffaws]
The gold must be
used for the Ainu.
That's my condition.
It originally belonged
to us, after all.
"Originally" that gold was
intended to buy weapons
to kill the Japanese.
[gasps]
But the Ainu who gathered it
for that purpose are long dead.
Every one of them!
There are those of us
who believe we can
solve things peacefully.
So that gold should be
used for that purpose!
No, it's clear your intent
is to carry on their will.
[HAJIME]
What happened to his sweet lies?
[TSURUMI]
I can see it in your eyes.
The very same eyes
your father had.
[chuckles]
--[gasps]
--[TSURUMI laughing]
[KIKUTA groans]
[gasping]
[gasps]
[ASIRPA]
Sugimoto.
I'll be the one
to decide my own fate.
You there!
Asirpa! What are you doing?!
[gasping]
Those are poisoned!
A single scratch'll kill you!
--[grunting]
--Get down!
[KOITO gasps]
Is everybody okay?!
[groans]
They're escaping!
[panting]
Pretty good, huh?! Obviously,
they weren't poisoned.
But I knew what you were up to.
[ASIRPA] I could spend
my days making citatap.
Or I could fight a war
to protect the Ainu.
There are many paths
I could take.
Sugimoto, if you're really
my partner, then do me a favor.
Talk less about
what I should do,
and more about what
we will do together.
Done! Let's go find
that gold by ourselves!
[ASIRPA]
Over there! Get inside!
Huh. Am I gonna die...?
You two go that way
to block off their escape!
Thoroughly clear out
each and every building!
Out through that door.
Do you have a plan
to lose these guys?
I do.
[panting]
[TANIGAKI]
The ferry?!
Yeah. It was out
of commission before,
but it's been all fixed up.
I guarantee that's
where they'll be headed!
[ASIRPA] Come on!
We can get through here!
Ah. Not so fast.
--[gasping]
--What was that?
[SUGIMOTO groans]
[snarls]
[USAMI grunts]
Hurry! They'll be
heading this way!
I see them! In the building!
Tah...!
[SUGIMOTO]
Keep running!
[HAJIME]
Halt!
You aren't going anywhere!
[grunts]
[gasps]
[SUGIMOTO grunting]
No! Sugimoto!
Don't shoot! You'll hit Asirpa!
Please, you have to get up!
No sudden moves.
You must've known this would
happen if you tried to escape.
[gasps] What are you doing?!
Lieutenant, you're too close!
[gasps]
--Get away! Right now!
--[SUGIMOTO growling]
[snarls]
I am Immortal Sugimoto!
--[gasps]
--[SUGIMOTO snarling]
[growling, snarling]
[SUGIMOTO snarls]
[HAJIME] Lieutenant Koito.
I'll see to your wound.
[KOITO groans]
Sergeant Tsukishima, on me!
We can't let them get away!
Don't pull out the blade.
Go, Tsukishima.
I'll be all right.
I warned you not to let
your emotions take over.
This is how it always goes.
[HAJIME] I thought you had
come around after our talk.
[HAJIME]
Would it kill you to pretend
that you're worried about him?
[ASIRPA] Just a little further.
We're almost to the ferry.
[SUGIMOTO huffs]
[ASIRPA]
Come on.
Mister Hood...
[panting]
Shiraishi!
Ha! Hey, Asirpa! I knew
you guys would come this way!
Get on!
[SHIRAISHI]
Whoo!
Wait for me!
You have to stay here!
Think of Inkarmat!
Lieutenant Tsurumi
still has her!
[TANIGAKI gasps]
You have to be careful!
They'll be watching
your village.
You can't go back there!
Tanigaki! Tell Huci
I dreamt we'd be reunited.
Maybe she'll believe it
and feel a little less lonely!
I'll come back one day.
I swear I will!
Until next time,
Genjiro Tanigaki...
Huh?
Private Tanigaki!
What the hell are you
doing wandering around?
You were with Yoshitake
Shiraishi, weren't you?
Where did he go?
[TANIGAKI] I saw him
running toward the city
with Asirpa and Sugimoto.
And why aren't you
going after them?
Hurry it up!
Private Tanigaki!
[TANIGAKI]
I'm a Matagi.
Huh?
Tanigaki the Matagi.
I just found out we're
supposed to be leaving soon.
Are you okay?
I'll be fine...
A few bullets... won't be
enough to finish me off.
It's not my time to die yet.
[SHIRAISHI] Hey, what's going
on there, Mister Hood?
[VASILI grunting]
Ah, crap! One of them
is coming this way.
[SOLDIER 43J] Hey! You there!
Don't leave the port!
You hear me?!
Bang!
Hey! I thought you were
supposed to be a sniper!
Bang!
Hit his leg! Aim for the leg!
[SOLDIER 43J]
Hey!
Did you get his leg...?
Dang, nice one.
All right! We made it
out of Karafuto!
Buh-bye, you
7th Division jerks!
--[horse whinnying]
--[TSURUMI] Hmm?
[SHIRAISHI]
What a huge pain in the neck.
Of all the places for you
to pick to make your escape.
If we're the ones who end up
finding the hidden gold,
then we're the ones who
will decide how to use it.
I'll leave it to Asirpa.
It's only right to let her
determine the best way
to protect the Ainu people.
A way that she can believe in.
Yeah, that's great and all,
but any thoughts on how
we do the "finding it" part?
[SHIRAISHI gasps]
Ah!
They're still after us!
Send a message via heliograph.
[TSURUMI chuckling]
[CREW MEMBER 43A]
They're demanding that
we kill our engines.
How should we proceed, Captain?
[CAPTAIN 43A] Hmm? What in
the world is going on?
--Hmm?
--Huh?
Don't stop the ship.
They want the girl alive.
They won't actually hit us,
since they can't
risk losing her.
Seems you've lost
an awful lot of blood.
Reckon this isn't
some inspection.
It's probably for the best
if you don't ask any questions.
--[CAPTAIN 43A] Fair enough.
--Heh.
I'll leave you to it, then.
I've been around long enough to
know when it ain't worth prying.
Plus, I'd rather die than listen
to a bunch of shits who fire
at a vessel full of civilians,
even if it was a warning shot!
Full speed ahead!
One problem, though.
Their ship is a hell of
a lot faster than ours.
They'll catch up in no time.
Got it!
Can we head through the ice
into the sea beyond?
It'll buy us time!
[CAPTAIN 43A] Huh? You know
this isn't an icebreaker, right?
If we steer into the ice floes,
we'll sink for sure!
Just do it!
It's not like we have
the luxury of choice here!
I have a plan!
[DESTROYER CREW 43A]
Captain!
The ferry's changed its bearing.
It's now heading eastward.
Fire another volley at them.
[SHIRAISHI screaming]
[grunting]
Ah! Lady luck is spreading
herself wide for us!
See, they cleared a path for us!
I knew they'd fire a bunch
of shells in the direction
we tried to go!
Nice one, Sugimoto!
Your experience threatening
others is really paying off!
Go faster!
We gotta get through before
she closes up on us!
[DESTROYER CREW 43A] The ferry
is increasing its speed!
[DESTROYER CREW 43A]
There are still ice floes ahead!
[DESTROYER CREW 43B] Don't tell
me they plan on ramming
straight through the ice?
Could it be the shells we fired
at them inadvertently created
a path for their escape?
[HEIJI growls]
[SUGIMOTO gasps]
At this rate, they'll catch
up to us again.
Right. Come on, Shiraishi!
[SHIRAISHI]
What?! Why?!
[ASIRPA]
We're gathering white fabric!
What's this for?
We're not surrendering, are we?
[DESTROYER CREW 43A]
Seems the ferry stopped.
It's starting to move now.
[DESTROYER CREW 43A]
It's turning toward us, Captain!
Come out unarmed,
Saichi Sugimoto!
He's not here anymore!
Not here?
[TSURUMI]
Hmm?
Search the whole ship!
You better tell us
where he's hiding!
[CAPTAIN 43A]
Like I said, that guy's gone!
You oughta clean out your ears!
He and his friends got off
when we stopped!
Took off on foot.
Walking on top of the ice floes!
[SOLDIER 43K]
I don't see them.
There's no way they could
have made it that far
in such a short time.
I'll go down to the floes
and search for signs of them.
No, stay.
It's far too risky.
They've got someone with
them who can hit a target
over 200 meters away from
a ferry on the water.
Chasing after them on foot would
be throwing your life away.
All 7th soldiers are
to board the ferry
and make for Wakkanai.
Once there, head south and
search the nearby villages
along the coast of Okhotsk!
[SOLDIERS]
Sir!
[TSURUMI] And here I was,
hoping that I could have
a nice little chat
with the girl.
All right, it looks like
they gave up the chase.
Your plan worked like a charm!
[SUGIMOTO] Well, the ferry
was only two hours away
from reaching Wakkanai.
Close enough to make it on foot.
There's no doubt that the 7th
will be waiting for us there.
We'll have to find
some way around
that they aren't expecting.
Ugh, that's gonna suck...
[USAMI] Couldn't we
just threaten to kill
Asirpa's relatives?
Use your head.
How do you propose we send
a ransom note to someone
when we don't know
where they are?
Shut it! I don't see you coming
up with any ideas here.
Maybe we could write
an obituary for her grandma
in the newspaper?
You might not have any problem
with it, but I'd rather not
murder an old woman
in cold blood.
We don't need to actually
kill her, you know,
the obituary could be made-up.
I'm sure she'll understand
the message we're sending.
If that girl's resolve
wasn't strong enough,
or if she still had a shred
of doubt left in her mind,
that method could
be effective on her.
I didn't have any choice.
If Lieutenant Tsurumi
got the gold,
it wouldn't be
used for the Ainu.
The truth is,
we gathered that gold for
the betterment of our people.
I'm right, aren't I?
I think so.
Actually, last night,
Shiraishi said he stumbled on
Tsukishima and Koito
talking about their plans.
Honestly, I didn't understand
most of what they were saying.
But they did mention
overthrowing the government.
Also, something about invading
Manchuria and retaking it
for the sake of
their dead comrades.
Hokkaido's just the first step
in their grand plan.
If you look at things
from their perspective,
their stance on Ainu
independence makes sense.
There were a lot of Ainu
in the 7th Division.
So they see the Ainu as fellow
Japanese people who fought
alongside them in the
war against Russia.
There are a lot of reasons to be
glad those 7th Division jerks
didn't get their grubby
hands on Asirpa.
If we just let that happen,
it would mean
Kiro fought and
died for nothing.
I still don't understand.
Why did Kiroranke Nispa
go to war?
Was he trying to protect
the family he had
in Japan from Russia?
I remember there was
something he said to me
that he never mentioned
to the rest of you.
After Wilk disappeared, the
independence movements
for native people
of the Far East fell apart.
So for the time being, he wanted
to fight the Russian Empire
in the only way he knew how.
He swore that he would kill as
many Russians as he could.
[SUGIMOTO]
It's simple to resolve things
by slaughtering
each other in war.
To unleash your sorrow
and rage on your enemy.
But the path
Asirpa is trying to choose
is far more difficult. She wants
to forge a future for the Ainu.
Hey, Asirpa.
I wanna know.
What did you whisper
to Kiroranke?
If I had to guess,
it's that you figured out
how to solve the code, right?
Yeah.
[SUGIMOTO grunts]
Oh, really?
That's great.
What was it?
The code--
Wait.
I'll leave that part up to you.
You can just tell me
when the time comes.
[ASIRPA] That's right.
And now isn't the time.
Sugimoto is far too kind
for his own good.
If he knew how to decipher
the code, he'd leave me behind.
And shoulder everything
by himself again.
He'd go on fighting and
suffering until his soul
left his body.
If I keep it a secret,
he'll have to stay.
And as long as I'm by his side,
I can protect him from those
who would harm him
to get the stolen gold.
I'll use myself as a shield.
No matter what happens...
And, if it comes to it...
...I'll remain
at Sugimoto's side.
And gladly walk
into Hell with him.
[VASILI grunting]
[SHIRAISHI]
Hmm? What, is something wrong?
There it is.
[HAJIME]
Who took off his uniform?
I don't know. It was a stranger.
[OGATA] Could you tell me
where the ferry was docked?
It was over there.
Quite the marksman.
Why are you
taking off his clothes?
[OGATA] He's not using
them anymore, right?
I can hear its voice.
This gun wants to keep killing
until it breaks into pieces.
His clothes, his shoes,
and even his gun, huh?
Looks like they were
eaten by a meko oyasi.
We did it! We made it
back to Hokkaido!
I'm just so pathetic.
At least you're alive.
[OGATA] I was wounded
in the battle of Karafuto
during the War.
You see, I only recently
learned to walk again.
I'd like to return to my home in
Hokkaido, where my aging parents
are waiting for me.
But I don't have any money.
This is the only thing
I can offer as payment.
A little bit of dried cod.
[CAPTAIN 43A sobs]
You can come on board.
[NARRATOR 1A] Next time:
"Brown Bear Man"!